input: stdin: Describe EoF behaviour, parser (#1075)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: pipeline/inputs/standard-input.md

# Standard Input

> The **stdin** plugin allows to retrieve a message stream from the standard input interface \(stdin\) of the fluent-bit process. In order to use it, specify the plugin name as the input, e.g:

Reviewer: Let's ensure we use `Fluent Bit` everywhere and split sentences to simplify reviews.

```suggestion
The **stdin** plugin supports retrieving a message stream from the standard input interface \(stdin\) of the Fluent Bit process.
In order to use it, specify the plugin name as the input, e.g:
```

```bash
$ fluent-bit -i stdin -o stdout
```

If the stdin stream is closed (end-of-file), the stdin plugin will instruct
`fluent-bit` to exit with success (0) after flushing any pending output.

## Input formats

> If no parser is configured for the stdin plugin, it expects *valid json* input input data with one of the following data formats:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no parser is configured for the stdin plugin, it expects *valid json* input data with one of the following data formats:
```

I'm not sure those are valid JSON though - the `=>` is something `stdout` uses?

Author: @patrick-stephens The output here isn't json because the example uses the default format of the `stdout` plugin. The _input_ to the `stdin` plugin is required to be valid json unless a parser is configured explicitly.

```bash
1. { map => val, map => val, map => val }
2. [ time, { map => val, map => val, map => val } ]
```

> It will log errors like

Reviewer: I'm a little confused here - above it says to expect data in this format then it says there will be an error.

Can we clarify with correct format and then examples of failing ones?

Author: @patrick-stephens I can see how it would've been confusing.

* here's what you should provide
* here's the error you get if you violate that expectation

I'll rearrange.

Author: Rephrased to

---

If no parser is configured for the stdin plugin, it expects *valid json* input input data with one of the following data formats:
 
```bash
1. { map => val, map => val, map => val }
2. [ time, { map => val, map => val, map => val } ]                                           
```

Any input data that is *not* in one of the above formats will cause the plugin to log errors like: 
   
```
[error] [input:stdin:stdin.0] invalid record found, it's not a JSON map or array
```
 
To handle inputs in other formats, a parser must be explicitly specified in the configuration for the `stdin` plugin. See [parser input example](#parser-input-example) for sample configuration.

[4] stdin.0: [1475898290, {"key"=>"some value"}]
```

### Parser input example <a id="parser-input-example"></a>

To capture inputs in other formats, specify a parser configuration for the
`stdin` plugin.

For example, if you want to read raw messages line-by-line and forward them you
could use a `parser.conf` that captures the whole message line:

```
[PARSER]
    name        stringify_message
    format      regex
    Key_Name    message
    regex       ^(?<message>.*)
```

then use that in the `parser` clause of the stdin plugin in the `fluent-bit.conf`:

```
[INPUT]
    Name    stdin
    Tag     stdin
    Parser  stringify_message

[OUTPUT]
    Name   stdout
    Match  *
```

`fluent-bit` will now read each line and emit a single message for each input
line:

```
$ seq 1 5 | /opt/fluent-bit/bin/fluent-bit -c fluent-bit.conf -R parser.conf -q
[0] stdin: [1681358780.517029169, {"message"=>"1"}]
[1] stdin: [1681358780.517068334, {"message"=>"2"}]
[2] stdin: [1681358780.517072116, {"message"=>"3"}]
[3] stdin: [1681358780.517074758, {"message"=>"4"}]
[4] stdin: [1681358780.517077392, {"message"=>"5"}]
$
```

> In most cases you'll want to use a more realistic parser that splits your

Reviewer: Try not to use shortenings of words so `you'll` should be `you will`. I would also try to avoid any kind of personal pronoun like `you`.

Author: Reworded to

> In real-world deployments it is best to use a more realistic parser that splits               
> messages into real fields and adds appropriate tags.
